Hello everyone and welcome to part two
in the object oriented programming video series.
So, in the last lecture we learned about objects
and how everything in Python is an object
and you can check the object type using the type function.
So now we wanna know how do we make our own objects
in Python?
And that's where the class keyword is gonna come into play.
So user defined objects are created
using this class keyword.
And you can think of class as almost as like a blueprint
that defines the nature of a future object.
And then from these classes, we can construct instances.
And an instance is gonna be a specific object
created from a particular class.
So, if you remember in this above example here
from the Jupyter notebook, we created a list called L,
and so L was an instance of a list object.
So let's go ahead and hop over to the live coding
to create a very simple example of a class.
So we put the class keyword, and then whatever your name
of the class you want to be.
So in this case we're gonna have a Sample be the name
of our class.
And by convention, class names are capitalised,
unlike function names which are lowercase.
And then we pass in this parameter object.
And I'll explain that in a later lecture,
because that actually has to do
with how Python was developed to begin with.
But for right now, just remember,
whenever you're making the class,
you have the keyword class, the name of the class,
and then you type in object as a parameter
that you pass through.
As far as this white space syntax,
it should look pretty familiar and similar to functions.
And then all we're gonna do for class, is just pass.
Okay, and that's our very first class.
So let's go ahead and make an instance
of our Sample class, by calling Sample.
And there you have it.
And so now X is, if we check it's type ...
Whoops.
It's type is main Sample, which basically tells you
that it's a Sample class type.
So, like I said about convention, we give classes a name
that starts with a capital letter.
And now right here we have X,
which is a reference to a newest sense of a Sample class.
In other words, we instantiate the Sample class.
Inside the class, we currently have pass,
but what we're gonna do now is define attributes
and methods.
So if we hop back over to the Jupyter notebook,
there's two things we can do within a class:
put in an attribute, and put in a method.
An attribute is a characteristic of an object,
and a method is an operation we can perform with the object.
So we've already seen methods,
and we've actually already dealt with attributes,
you just didn't know it yet.
And to show this, we're gonna create an example class
called Dog.
So for instance, an attribute of a dog may be its breed
or its name, while a method of a dog may be defined
by like a bark method, which returns some sort
of printed sound out.
Okay, so let's go ahead and get a better understanding
of attributes through an example.
And the syntax for attributes is gonna look
a little something like this.
It's gonna be self, dot, the name of the attribute,
and then you set it equal to something.
And there's a special method called init.
Underscore, underscore, I-N-I-T,
underscore, underscore, parentheses.
And that's gonna allow us to basically initialise,
or instantiate, the attributes of an object.
So, the syntax is gonna look like this,
what I have here in the cell.
And I'm gonna go ahead and live code it
and break it down for you.
So let's go ahead and create a Dog class.
So, I start with my class keyword, capital letter, Dog.
And then I pass in object.
Basically, you can think of that as Python telling it,
"Oh, you're making an object."
That's not exactly what's happening there,
it's a little more complex than that,
but for right now, you can just think of it that way.
And now, we start with a method.
And when you put a function inside of a class,
you refer to them as methods.
And this, underscore, underscore, I-N-I-T,
is known as a special method.
And that's because it's going to initialise
the attributes of a class.
And every single method within a class,
is going to have the word "self" in it.
S-E-L-F.
Self.
And something I want you to keep in mind,
is we've already used the term method before.
You can remember when we had lists,
we had methods such as count,
like we saw in the last lecture.
So what's basically happening right now,
is you're making methods for your own object
that you're creating.
Now, this underscore, underscore, I-N-I-T,
underscore, underscore, is what's known as a special method,
and it's gonna allow us to put in attributes for our class.
So right now, I'm going to create this class, Dog,
take an object, and I create this first method.
And what I'm gonna do is create an attribute
called breed for the Dog.
Self dot breed, and I'm gonna set it equal to breed.
Go ahead and run that.
And then create an instance of Dog
with the breed equal to Lab.
And now if I check what Sam is, main dog, great.
So now let's fully breakdown what we just did above.
So we start with class, the name of the class
and then we input object.
After that, we start constructing our methods,
which basically look like functions,
but since they're within a class, we call them methods.
And we have this special method,
this underscore, underscore, I-N-I-T,
underscore, underscore, and it's called automatically,
right after the object has been created.
So remember, this will always be your first method
when you're creating your classes.
And as you create classes, you'll see why.
So each method in the class definition,
begins for reference to the instance object.
And what that means is you always start
with this self reference.
That's by convention that you use that self keyword.
It actually doesn't have to be self,
but it's never, not self.
So always use self as the first argument for these methods.
That basically tells you, "Hey, this method
within your class, is referencing Dog first."
Okay, and then when continuing off of that,
each method in the class definition begins
for reference in the instance object
and like we said, by convention, that's self.
So in this case, breed is the argument.
And the value is passed during class instantiation.
So we say self dot breed equals breed.
So when I'm creating that instance of the Dog class,
I can't just do dog, because init needs an argument.
And notice how it says it takes exactly two arguments,
only one was given.
But you might be thinking,
"Hey, I actually gave it zero arguments."
Well, that's not true, because self by default,
is given there because it lets
that method know you're referencing that dog object.
So then we say breed is equal to whatever you want it to be.
And notice we're actually not checking
that breed is a particular type of object.
I could actually just pass a list there, or a number,
but here it makes sense that I want a breed.
So let's go ahead and do another breed.
Another breed of dog we can do is like a Huskie.
So now sam is an instance of this Dog object type,
and it's breed, that attribute is equal to Huskie.
And it's referencing that attribute with the self dot breed.
And it's gonna be equal to whatever you put in
as breed there.
Okay, so let's go ahead and make that sam equal to Dog.
So this object label, sam, references that Dog object.
And now- and this is why I stressed method
so much earlier in the course-
so you can kinda draw the parallel here,
I just did tab complete.
And if I call breed on sam, it returns Huskie.
And notice how I'm not putting parentheses,
like we saw in some other methods.
That's because this is an attribute of the object,
not a method on the object.
This init, or this def, and then whatever keywords
you see here, those will be methods.
But right now, self dot breed is an attribute
of the Dog object.
Okay, so in Python, there's also class object attributes,
and those class object attributes are the same
for any instance of the class.
So I'll show you what I mean by that,
by creating a new class object attribute.
So I'm gonna place it right before any methods.
Class object attribute.
And I'm gonna make something called species mammal.
Whoops.
Okay, so notice right now I'm not saying,
"self dot species," I'm saying just, "species."
And that's because if I put this outside
and before this init method, it's gonna treat it as,
what's called a class object attribute.
And that means no matter what kind of Dog object we make,
it's species is always going to be mammal,
which makes sense, right?
No matter what the breed of a dog is,
it's always gonna be a mammal.
So if we go ahead and run that cell,
now we have sam, the dog.
It's breed is still Huskie,
but you'll notice now if I put tab here,
it also has a species attached to it, and it's mammal.
And that's what's known as a class object attribute.
So now let's create some more attributes for this dog.
So what else can a dog have?
A dog can have a name.
So then I'll pass a name when I start making the dog
and I'll say, "Okay, self dot name is equal to
whatever name I pass for that dog."
So now if you notice if I only pass Huskie,
I'll get an error because that takes three arguments
and only two were given: self and breed.
So now I'll put a name for my dog.
And I'll name it the same label I was using,
I'll name it ...
Well, I'll name it Sammy.
There you go.
And now, sam, which is a Dog object,
is also gonna have a name: Sammy, that string
that's attached to it.
Okay, now what I want you again note,
is that the class object attribute
that species equals mammal, is defined outside
of any methods in the class.
And by convention, you always place them first
before this init method.
Okay, so I know we kinda went over a lot,
and this is actually the end of this part two
of object oriented programming, the class keyword.
So let's really breakdown everything that we just did.
I'll hop back over to the completed Jupyter notebook
to make sure we understand what we did.
So remember, when we wanna create a new object type,
we use the class keyword, we space,
then we capitalise whatever we want the name
of the class to be, and we pass an object
as a parameter argument there, colon,
and in this case we just did pass,
the simplest class or object type you can have.
And then when you create an instance of it,
you call the class no arguments
and you can check its type and check
that it's part of the class, that main sample.
Okay, so that's how we create classes.
And remember, classes can basically have attributes
and methods.
So we've already seen the ways we can create attributes.
And there's a special method, which we'll always do
when we're creating a class, called
underscore, underscore, I-N-I-T, underscore, underscore.
And that's gonna allow us to initialise the attributes
of the object.
So it's always gonna be first, as far as your first method.
Now we also saw class object attributes,
such as the species here and those come first
if you decide to have them even before that init method.
They're not always necessary,
but if you do decide to have these class object attributes,
then you will use them.
Okay, so moving back up here, we say def, so it looks ...
Basically it follows all the same syntax as a function.
And you can almost think of it as a function
except that since it's inside a class, it's called a method,
because it's a method on that class object.
Underscore, underscore, I-N-I-T, we pass in self,
and then you start passing in whatever
you want the attributes to be.
So we saw breed in this particular example,
and then back here, we also passed the name,
and just to drive the point home a little further,
maybe I say, "fur."
And I can have fur be a Boolean or something.
Maybe I always say, "Okay, in most cases dogs have fur."
So I can actually set these just like we did for functions.
I can set default argument.
So I'll say, "self dot fur is then equal to fur."
And by default, fur is actually always equal to true.
So that means when I run this,
I actually don't have to pass it.
And if I check if my dog has fur,
you'll notice that it equals true.
Now I could have passed fur equals to false.
Let's say for some reason this dog didn't have fur,
and now fur is equal to false.
So as far as the syntax and convention here,
this should feel very similar to functions.
The main difference being, this self.
The fact that you're creating attributes off
of these input arguments.
And the reason we're using self here,
instead of just like breed equals breed,
is because due to scope, Python needs to know,
"Hey are you actually referencing
some global variable breed,
or do you want me to set this dog's object attribute,
self dot breed, equal to that breed input."
Okay, so I encourage you to play around
with this particular class, right here this dog,
make up at least one or two more attributes.
Make sure you fully understand,
and I also want you to set a new class object attribute
that would be true for all dogs.
Okay, so make sure you fully understand
how we set attributes using this special method,
this init method.
And coming up next,
we'll look into methods more broadly,
just as functions defined within the body of a class.
Okay, thanks, and I'll see you at the next lecture.